
_The Courage to Be Disliked_ is a series of conversations between a
philosopher and a downtrodden youth seeking happiness. The philosopher
explains the answers found in the psychology and philosophy of Alfred Adler.

The principle idea is that people are unhappy because they don't like
themselves. How does one get self-worth? Adler has a simple answer, that one
feels worth by being a contributing member of a community.

Most of the book is dedicated to the individual and how they should approach
relationships. Even if you don't buy into Adler's vision for community, there
is a strong message of self-empowerment and integrity that can be readily
applied.

<!--
Adler says that the first step is self-acceptance and the belief that you can
change. This step offers enough courage to begin facing the interpersonal
problems of life. Adler states that all problems are interpersonal problems.
This was quite hard for me to accept (like the youth in the book). However,
the problem of how much worth one has only exists in a social context. It's
only with other people around that you could comparatively measure worth.

 Interpersonal
problems are the tasks we face that summon our fears of failure, rejection,
and being disliked. They exist in our aspirations to be a writer or in the
daily routine of work, friendship, and parenting.

The result of facing our interpersonal problems is "community feeling". It's a
notion of community, where one can find a sense of belonging and worth. This
worth will give you the courage to face greater problems and so on.

-->
> Adlerian psychology is a psychology of courage. Your unhappiness cannot be
blamed on your past or your environment. And it isn’t that you lack
competence. You just lack courage. One might say you are lacking in the
courage to be happy.

<!--
The most contentious aspect of the book occurs in the third chapter, where the
author denies that trauma exists.

> No experience is in itself a cause of our success or failure. We do not
suffer from the shock of our experiences--the so-called trauma--but instead we
make out of them whatever suits our purposes. We are not determined by our
experiences, but the meaning we give them is self-determining.

Adler is not discrediting victims, nor downplaying the effect that trauma has
on our lives. Any progress a victim makes they must make themselves. Adler's
belief is that, concious or unconsciously, we give meaning to trauma to
accomplish some goal.


When I was reflecting on the book, I realized that the book oscillates between
two ideas. How does one feel worth? How does one live honestly? Both
contribute to our happiness. We want to be ourselves, we want to be true, but
we also want to feel valuable. Adler points out how we participate in all
sorts of behavior which denies the self in order to feel worth.

We want to be liked by others. We want to impress others. We strike down our
competition. We live in fear of losing. We dominate others. We view others as
enemies. We sing only in the shower and filter our thoughts.

At the same time there is this important feeling of being at complete ease
with someone. Someone who can know our thoughts and like us the same. It's
something we desperately need, so we seek it in certain relationships.
However, the rest of our lives are dominated by a search for value.

Adler provides several answers to how we can live honestly and feel worth.
-->

**Accept oneself.** Adler describes self-acceptance as the first step.
> One ascertains the things one can change and the things one cannot change.
> One cannot change what one is born with. But one can, under one’s own power,
> go about changing what use one makes of that equipment. So in that case, one
> simply has to focus on what one can change, rather than on what one cannot.

**Create horizontal relationships**. After accepting oneself, one accepts
others. One sees each other as fundamentally equal. When two people see each
other as equal, they form a horizontal relationship. Attitudes of competition,
and recognition seeking are attempts to build vertical relationships where one
is above another.
> A mother praises her child who has helped her prepare dinner, saying,
"You're such a good helper!" But when her husband does the same things, you
can be sure she won't be telling him, "you're such a good helper!" ... In
other words, the mother who praises the child ... is unconsciously creating a
hierarchical relationship and seeing the child as beneath her.

**Accept being disliked.** Adler warns that the only way to be liked by
everyone is to live others' versions of your life.
> What should one do to not be disliked by anyone? There is only one answer:
It is to constantly gauge other people's feelings while swearing loyalty to
all of them.

**Do not avoid one's tasks.** Adler believes that anyone can change, but that
change requires courage. When we ignore the responsibilities of life, we cannot
make progress.

> I have a young friend who dreams of becoming a novelist, but he never
seems to be able to complete his work. According to him, his job keeps him too
busy, and he can never find enough time to write novels, and that's why he
can't complete work and enter it for writing awards. But is that the real
reason? No! It's actually that he wants to leave the possibility of "I can do
it if I try" open, by not committing to anything.

Each of our relationships involves risk. In our work relationships, there is
the risk of being seen as incompetent. In our romantic relationships, there is
the fear of unreciprocated feelings. In our relationships with friends there
is the risk that we won't be liked.

In each task we have something to lose—"the dignity of one’s irreplaceable
self". It is only by facing our tasks that we can make any progress.

> Simply put, people have various complaints about things, but it's easier and
> more secure to be just the way one is ... When we try to change our
> lifestyles, we put our great courage to the test.

**Seek the feeling of contribution.**
> Namely, that the feeling of "I am beneficial to the community" or "I
am of use to someone" is the only thing that can give one a true awareness
that one has worth.

**You are the only one who can assign meaning to your life**. Early in the
book the author uses an analogy of drawing water from a well in winter versus
summer. In the winter, the water feels warm, and in the summer it feels cool,
yet it is nearly the same temperature. This isn't an illusion, it's just the
nature of experience. Subjectivity extends to how we see our traits and how we
view others.

> What is the meaning of life? What are people living for? When someone posed
these questions to Adler, this was his answer: "Life in general has no
meaning." ... During the war, my grandfather was firebombed, and his face was
severely burned. In every way, it was a horrendous and inhumane event. It
would certainly have been within the realm of possibility for him to choose a
lifestyle with the perspective of "the world is a horrible place" or "people
are my enemies." however, when my grandfather rode the train on visits to the
hospital, there were always other passengers who would give up their seats for
him. This is something I heard about through my mother, so I do not know he
actually felt. But this is what I believe: My grandfather chose a lifestyle
with the perspective of "People are my comrades, and the world is a wonderful
place." That is exactly what Adler is pointing to when he says whatever
meaning life has must be assigned to it by the individual. So life in general
has no meaning whatsoever. But you can assign meaning to that life. And you
are the only one who can assign meaning to your life.

<!--

## The feeling of contribution

I ask myself the question often, "Am I proud of this? What can I do today to
feel proud?" It's not pride in the sense of conceit or being better than other
people, but looking at oneself and seeing something good.

Adler's notion of a feeling of contribution is similar to what I mean by pride.
The professor describes how it is the "feeling" not the contribution itself
which matters.

> You are not the one who decides if your contributions are of use. That is
the task of other people, and is not an issue in which you can intervene. In
principle, there is not even any way you can know whether you have really made
a contribution. That is to say, when we are engaging in this contribution to
others, the contribution does not have to be a visible one—all we need is the
subjective sense that "I am of use to someone," or in other words, a feeling
of contribution.

Adler also describes how this contribution isn't an act of sacrifice. It's not
about being "moral". It's about feeling useful. In any case, it seems
preferable to get one's sense of worth from oneself.

What about people that cannot contribute? Adler says we should appreciate
people at the level of being. This feels like a sidestep. Relying on the sense
of contribution to others is not reliable, when one is bedridden. At every
point in one's life, one can only do their best. Doing your best is the only
shared benchmark we have. Everyone has the opportunity to be proud in doing
their best.

> When we refer to the pursuit of superiority, there's a tendency to think of
it as the desire to try to be superior to other people; to climb higher, even
if it means kicking others down ... Adler does not uphold such attitudes, of
course. Rather, he's saying that on the same level playing field, there are
people who are moving forward, and there are people who are moving forward
behind them


-->
